Pattern | Problem | Improvement | Workshop Activity
--- | --- | --- | ---
Huge images (or auto-playing videos), especially in the header / hero section. | Uses up lots of data: expensive and slow. | Heavily optimise images, don't auto-play video. Be aware of the cost (in data and time) of your images. | Use image optimisation tools. Get ideas from Lara Hogan's [Optimizing Images chapter of Designing for Performance](http://designingforperformance.com/optimizing-images)
Parallax | Janky: processor-intensive, especially on mobile. Causes scrolling issues.  | Don't use it. Have static images breaking up the content instead. | Make a plan for ditching parallax.
Off-canvas navigation | Hides your content from users, removes information scent. | Review your IA, use a different style of navigation. | Review the IA, sketch new navigation styles.
Low contrast text | Not very readable or legible in low light, or for users with poorer eyesight. | Up the contrast. | Use some colour contrast checking tools. (e.g. [Lea Verou's contrast ratio](http://leaverou.github.io/contrast-ratio/), )
Carousels, especially auto-playing ones. | People often ignore them (like they do with ad banner blindness), seldom interact with them. Many have accessibility issues. | [Don't use them!](http://shouldiuseacarousel.com/) Or at least let the user move the slides, and [provide labels that give them a reason to use it](http://uxmovement.com/navigation/why-users-arent-clicking-your-home-page-carousel/). | Make a plan for how to ditch your carousels, and how to explain it to the bosses.
Share Widgets | Interactive widgets slow down a page, and can block loading of the rest of it. Share buttons add weight to a page and are seldom used. | Remove social media sharing widgets entirely, or replace them with simple link versions. | Make a plan for what to do in own work.
Relying on custom fonts in your design | Custom fonts can be slow to load, or fail to load at all. | Make sure your site works great with the generic `serif` or `sans-serif` system fonts. | Remove custom fonts from your site and see what changes you need to make.
Loading screens | Hides a bigger problem: your site is too slow! | Conduct a thorough performance review of your site. | Use [WebPageTest](http://www.webpagetest.org/) and [Google's Page Speed Insights](https://developers.google.com/speed/pagespeed/insights/) to get some ideas for improvements.
Single Page websites | Can result in large, heavy, pages. That means slow and expensive, especially on mobile. More difficult for people to share a specific part of the page. | Split it into several pages. | Make a plan for splitting it into several pages.
Ghost buttons | They don't offer proper affordance as a button, and often aren't visually distinct from other interface elements. | Make buttons look like buttons. | Redesign some existing buttons in your work.
Thinking in pages | Focus shits to look and feel as opposed to content | Concentrate on systems design with reusable modular components | Concentrate on modular design
Static prototypes | Still thinking in pages and a print-like mindset | Move to in-browser design, utilizing rapid and style prototyping | Use tools like Invision. Use HTML.
Over-reliance on grid systems | Generic grids (Boostrap, Foundation, etc) are neither a good representation of a site's content nor its design. | Consider content out layouts | Simplify your grid
Modal/overlay | Terrible for keyboard users. Impede flow through site. (Ok for image galleries?)| In almost all cases, there is no need to force users into specific actions. Rather, show the content that you were going to put into an overlay within the page  | Consider collapsible UI elements or dynamic inline elements.
Text over images | Produces unexpected results if length is not ideal. Obscures images. Tricky with responsive design. | Flow text around images. Do you actually need that image?  | Redesign image/text layout
Fixed positioning | Performance killer if you are using js. Interferes with scrolling. Can take up a lot of screen real estate especially on mobile.| Use natural element flow | Remove fixed positioning (especially on mobile).
Hiding information behind hover states (or even worse, clickable js elements) | Makes information inaccessible to non-mouse users | Don't hide information | Consider why info needs to be hidden. Is it really necessary to have?
Typography | Too many font-size and family declarations | Very hard to maintain | Keep font variations to a minimum. Use a typographic scale like [Modular scale](http://www.modularscale.com/) or [Type scale](http://type-scale.com/)
Pagination | Large datasets can lead to confusion (where am I?). | Only use when it is not possible to display all the data on a single page/screen or when the dataset is in some way ordered. Do not use when you don't want the user to pause for navigating to the next page. | Reconsider / redesign pagination controls.
Infinite scrolling | Removes sense of control from user (no endpoint). Not easy to discern information. Inefficient. Poor performance. | Consider cumulative search filters  | Allow user to narrow down interest/search. See [So You Think You’ve Built a Good Infinite Scroll](http://adrianroselli.com/2014/05/so-you-think-you-built-good-infinite.html)
Animation | Obscure navigation interactions, annoying banner ads, Flash intros. Performance and bandwidth killers |Micro animations can improve user experience, eg. communicating status, adding affordance, showing status. | Use where appropriate.
Forms | What element to use when. "Designed" inputs. Inappropriate inputs. | Use appropriate inputs for desired user behaviour. | Look at the forms you have designed and see if they can be improved.
Login | forcing login. Social login. Which one did I use. What if one ceases to exist. Only Facebook / Twitter, etc. | Consider specific use cases for login | Evaluate and reconsider logins on your sites.
Responsive Web Design | :troll: | Make separate sites for: mobile, tablet, desktop, watch, and fridge.  | Figure out that this one is a joke.